Title: February 2025 - Parks Commission Meeting
Period: 202502
Date: February 2025
Video ID: G56sOPftNpg
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G56sOPftNpg
======================================================================

here Vice chair James
frol commissioner
Ellis commissioner flecher here
commissioner
berado commissioner
bar commissioner
Campbell commissioner Woods
commissioner Quincy
Grant commissioner Quinton
whitside City director Cappy peek City
director Andrea
Lewis Deputy City attorney Simone
black
here um we have two Commissioners
present at this
time okay um I don't see anyone online
either so
Simone I guess no Quorum today so we'll
just go through the agenda but there's
no voting or we can just have
discussions about the agenda is that
correct that's correct
okay so can we I guess we can't approve
meeting minutes we cannot okay so I'm
just go straight through uh citizen
communication I don't see anyone
here okay and then um I'll hand over to
Leland for his I guess let's have Leland
have discussions about his report and
then um for any of the other uh staff
reports um of course those are emailed
out and mahogany thank you for doing
that if if we have any questions on the
staff reports after Leland discusses his
uh his report we can get into that
so okay um good afternoon um I just have
a quick report these are the uh top
items and I usually open up with are
there any questions for uh staff in
terms of any of their
reports Canon or Ben or director
Lewis no seeing none I don't have
anything right now I will move on to um
my report which is generally I start
with the uh board agenda um so far this
year we haven't had anything the parks
has not taken anything to the board um
except for one item which I'll cover uh
in my my agenda here shortly but what we
are uh taking to the next agenda meeting
is war moral playground we are starting
to use some of our bond money to do some
repairs to um some of our playgrounds
and some of our parks in general war
memorial needs new servicing on the
playground um and some upgrades to the
swing set and some minor repairs uh to
keep it uh going for a great asset that
we have there uh so appreciate that the
next one also will be a um architectural
engineering uh board communication for
um uh Cromwell to do some design work
for Reservoir Park um we have worked
alongside uh Cromwell um at reservoir
park for a lot of work however this time
now we're uh really working towards uh
engineering and improvements to items um
from the tornado damage uh We've
replaced everything that was um able to
be replaced in terms of Renovations or
repairs and this will be for the road
infrastructure and ball field and uh
playground location uh which we're all
excited to try to get all that
accomplished in
2025 um the next item I'd like to
discuss is um I'm excited that we've
been able to apply for a cprg grant um
this is a grant U multi-million dollar
Grant through met plan I've been working
with our grants office and um a couple
areas that have really come to our
interest is moral Park uh Reservoir Park
and Murray Park uh the reason for these
is um this is all about a carbon credit
type environmental um Grant it's all
about um planting trees and how to
improve the environment that's my
understanding of it and um world moral
has Coleman Creek which is for forever
have we've had a design to improve the
Creek there and um we are working with
our grants office to apply for that
Grant as we speak the other Parks
Reservoir Murray are all about replacing
the tree canopy there um as part of the
um to repair from the tornado damage um
another exciting project is our I30
Crossing project I'm still um working to
find a time to have our consultant
Sasaki come and give a presentation to
this group in terms of what that actual
project is they are actually working on
a master plan to see what can be
developed as a park in downtown Little
Rock as part of the new I30 Crossing um
construction project down there for the
interstate um we have uh very recently
worked and partnered with the uh state
state parks applied for a raise Grant um
for this location and connections to
some of their properties and others in
the area um it the total impact of a
project if we were fully awarded is
roughly $25 million
and so um that did go to the uh board um
earlier this year and it was a
modification to the agenda this was a um
very quick turnaround we discussed it in
a meeting with the state in the end of
the year and um the application was due
January 21st so I did not have an
opportunity to bring it in front of this
board to discuss in any of the meetings
um lastly um some exciting news is the
Little Rock marathon is coming up uh
that will be March first um for
everybody that's participating in it I
know that some of the races have already
started to sell out like for the 5K I
believe is sold out um so it looks like
it's going to be a great weekend for
that and um welcome everybody to town
that will be participating in that
that's just kind of my general update if
anybody has any questions or other items
that um plenty of other items that I
didn't cover but if there's any um
questions about certain things please
let me know
hey on the uh had a quick question on
the reservoir park is that like is we we
getting FEMA money for that would that
help or is that yep so just to get into
details um Jess and I have been working
on Reservoir for now two years uh we did
get some FEMA money we originally had a
um Cromwell and others and another
company help us price out the amount of
damages to Reservoir Park it was roughly
what would you say Justin $2.5
million yeah $4 million so we take that
number and and gave it to FEMA to say
this is what kind of Damages there's a
whole long process we've also received
some insurance money our insurance money
was pretty uh minor um in comparable to
that 4 million because our assets that
were insured in that Park had
depreciated in value greatly um but that
being said we we've removed all the
items there that were completely
destroyed that we had Structural
Engineers and all kinds of different
people look at to confirm that um but we
did uh repair the tennis court we
repaired the uh Pavilion uh we had to
rebuild all the electrical and now we're
trying to do these um last items would
be the ball field playground and uh road
work we had the road work uh to we
actually took it to the board for
approval they approved a a um contract
or what would have been a contract with
redstone to it was Redstone right yeah
to um rebuild all the road works there
however um the day before we got a
letter from the federal government
saying that they withdrew our funding
for that because of different reasons
and we're in the process of appealing
that decision as we speak
so any other questions for Leland his
staff or his report any other staff
reports what's can you give a a little
bit more information on the you were
talking about during the I30
Crossing s of like interconnecting not
necessarily Trails but just other
adjacent Properties or in terms of the
grant that we that we worked on yeah yes
so just to be more precise on that we
met with um first gentleman Brian
Sanders and um his staff and some of the
outdoor recreation staff they were
interested in our project and they were
interested in um partnering with with us
and finding ways that maybe uh they
could help fund some improvements and
work with us to uh to fulfill you know
the the idea of this project um like
I've said before anything in terms of a
new park or anything like that would
obviously have to come before this
commission um that's why I mentioned
we're we're working to have our um
Consulting Group come and present here
but we have not finalized the actual
definition of what that Park would look
like we've made it a long long way even
just this morning I had some really long
phone call conversations with our city
attorney's office if you understand the
property it's a roughly about 15 Acres
of R do RightWay property um and we we
right now call it the I30 Crossing area
and um we will be requesting permits and
easements to be able to build anything
down there so we're working through that
whole process right now exactly what
that will look like
um and then once we finalize that which
we're coming very close to we'll be uh
having a lot of public meetings to get
public input and we'll be presenting to
this group like I said so um that raise
Grant came out of that state meeting and
the state um um gentleman in state parks
Jordan Thompson was able to uh work on
that Grant and get it applied in a very
timely manner uh working working with us
and our Consultants on a a general plan
focused on trail infrastructure for the
whole
area
and one thing
that I guess I didn't understand from
when it was discussed prior the 15
Acres um it's sort of like a green space
right now right like between all the
buildings where the old ramps
were me roughly um so that's arot land
is
that similar to to like canis underneath
the highway
where it could get redeveloped in theory
down the road or they yes you're things
we're going to put in there to try to
have it not get redeveloped if we
develop it or you're exactly right it's
not state land not our do land it's our
land 15 acre whose land 15 acre
greenspace it's it's all owned by R do
okay you're correct it's exactly like I
don't want to say exactly but right no
I'm just asking very identical to Kanis
and the basketball court there and we
have an ER right easement that we
applied through uh r dot and we've
already that's what we've been
discussing with them is what exactly
would be approved what would not be
approved what are some different options
in this area in terms of you know all
the above okay
okay thank you director couch um any uh
presentations I don't think we scheduled
anything
this
yes yeah
good afternoon it's good to see y'all
today my name is Karen syes and I am the
park ranger and volunteer coordinator
for the city of Little Rock and I have
an invitation for y'all sitting there to
impact the rock which is April
26th Saturday at 9:00 a.m. and impact
the rock is the city's
beautification day where residents from
all over the city come together in every
Ward there is a project in every Ward
for people to
attend and for here for Parks we have
three we
have um Fish Creek and bny Craig Park
where people will be getting into canoes
and pulling litter out of the water we
have Rock Creek Trail which we just
opened up earlier on national public
lands day and pulled out 6,000 lounds of
litter and then we have Reservoir Park
and this is the first post tornado event
that we are having and we will be
planting trees so I hope that you will
join us at Reservoir it is the kickoff
um we will have some speakers there as
well as we will be serving lunch at
1130 and director Lewis in Ward six it
is Kanis
Road that's all I have thank you
there's a project in every Ward and so
in Ward one it's downtown Little Rock
the streets and then two is Minny Craig
and three is zoo and four
is
Reservoir five is Rock Creek and six six
is kis Road and seven is the animal
Village and I will get you some more
information
too think we have four Commissioners
here but I that's still not Quorum
correct is it five Quorum or
six it's 10 of us so it's four five so
we we would need six all right just
making sure um heading on to unfinished
business business uh is subcommittee
reports um I know Sam sent a email he
can't make it today and he had no news
for the uh Parts Conservancy report I
speak to that yeah uh at our last Park
Conservancy uh meeting or board meeting
there was a a large interest to um work
on that uh Conservancy in terms of
getting it more active than it is and
and uh they're looking for some new MERS
and whatnot um but they also made point
to say you know how come this commission
and that Conservancy uh work together in
terms of um you know the same goal um
and so they uh realize that there is a
subcommittee here that is supposed to be
reaching out to the Conservancy so if I
would I'd just like to make um emphasis
on that I think they you know Samuel
should or if he could appoint somebody
from the board to attend the Conservancy
uh next meeting which would be uh next
month the DAT I do I can look it up I
I'm I'm on that subcommittee so I'll get
with Sam and hopefully it's me myself
and Quincy are on there um I will see if
one of us can make it be March 5th 5th
what time at 11:30 it's typically at
Fletcher um the Fletcher library but um
let's just reconfirm that thank
you um I'll go to uh the master plan um
JT's the head of that but he's not here
can't are you on that subcommittee yes
you guys have
anything uh I don't think since the last
meeting no I know you guys met last I'd
like to report on that yeah so just for
um so people are aware uh the master
plan subcommittee has been meeting um
there was the last meeting was right
before the um Park commission and we
discussed um our strategic plan for the
next five years they're reviewing that
that plan as we speak um and are
planning on getting us back some
comments we were planning on meeting
again today however because of some
unplanned um vacancies we were not able
to hold that meeting
hey Quinton anything on marketing in
general um yeah have you found
replacement for Britney yet that's what
I was going to ask is how's that going
is the youall been I know you have some
candidates last time and um I just want
to S an update on that yeah absolutely
so um I won't go back into the full
detail of what we we moved around a
couple different positions we were in
the process of doing that when Britney
was still here um and so um we had a
data position that was empty and now
with Britney gone um social media we
have um Extended an offer to a um
gentleman for the data marketing
position and we're expecting him to
start uh Angel at next week I
think the 24th um I typically don't
share anything about that person until
they actually come and and work um in
the office um so I'll be excited to
share that next month um but that will
be filled and then um we are in the
process of now since Britney has
officially left is refilling her
position uh for the social media type
area so is that a application out there
can people no Angela can you give us an
update on
that we wanted to also make sure that
the new individual who will be over that
position um will be in the process of
able to interview and hire that position
so it's all a little bit of a timing um
but that new individual uh should be
here next month at this meeting thank
you
yep all right um commission ideas goals
for 2025 my idea is in new business um
which we'll get into but uh anyone else
have any ideas I brought up the corly
site visits um which we'll talk about
new business but for the for the go the
go of the group anyone else have any
ideas for 2025
um besides you know just uh you know I
think we're doing a good job on the
subcommittees subcommittees um we need
to get a little more active on the parts
conservancy and I'm going to talk to uh
talk to Sam about that but um anything
else that you guys want to want to
discuss with that um if not we can we
can go on to the next go ahead
I have one item I just encourage the um
the board here again to um produce an
annual report and find a time this year
to present it to the City Board of
Directors far you me the board like to
present the board directors okay yeah
that's in talking about that new
business too that's in new business I
didn't see that yeah the master plan
committee we um I don't remember if it
was the last meeting or the prior but uh
discuss sort of getting in not in front
of but um a little more hand and glove
on the budgeting and things like that
like this year it's already gone but I
mean sort so we
can look at that
and late fall you know early winter and
then as the whole board look at it and
then right you know write a
recommendation to the city board that
kind of thing so um that's definitely I
mean a goal for that subcommittee is
trying
to help get that organized and get that
moving for the whole group uh can report
uh Canon I know you were asking about
the budget uh the 2025 budget obviously
is completed uh there will be a a
booklet that's shared every year uh
checked with the CFO before I came is um
he's finalizing it any any day as soon
as that's finalized we'll share it and
definitely have copies here uh to share
at the next meeting
I guess
uh the last two items to talk about is
the extending Parts commission time and
a new location um once they
start doing construction on this do we
have a timing yet for we going to start
the new location for the parts
commission
meeting can you speak to the
I know mahogany and we're looking at a
couple different options uh for future
uh meetings so I'm not not sure exactly
where we are on all that but as far as
timeline for construction um on this
project uh it is out to bid right now uh
but realistically with contracts and
depending on answering some of the
questions are out there I don't I don't
anticipate uh construction starting here
till closer till summer probably may may
is so we've got got a few more months
okay go ahead so then on on top of that
thank you Justin so mahogany did look at
several different locations our biggest
challenge at these other locations is is
all the technology that we have in this
room if we move to a community center um
they do not have the in-depth technology
and and WebEx capability and all that I
do know the board is discussing um that
at the board level in terms of what it
actually means to be present at a at a
meeting so that might change and if that
changes then we would have more
flexibility but until that time um we
can stay meeting here as long as as long
as we can but then eventually if if we
need to move out um I'm recommending
that we move to City Hall and utilize
their uh technology there so that we can
continue to do WebEx so two or three
things might change in the time period
um but we do have a list of all the
community centers um which we were going
to share but I just don't think there
any of them are that viable of an option
if we did move to City Hall too the
other change um the time would be that's
that's open for discussion here um but
if it assumingly stays at lunch uh due
to the nature of the facility and
everything we would still be able to
provide lunch but think we would do more
of a box lunch and we would probably do
something to where we ask for your
um type of menu or whatever when you
Reser um at the agenda when when you
RSVP sorry thanks so that's that's my
update that I brought this up last month
or maybe two months ago but I we we have
been you know an hour long as a short
amount of time especially we have all of
our commissioners here
and I I know we can't vote or anything
today but I would I would I was talking
about maybe starting at
11:45 um just to make sure we cover
everything thing but does anyone have
any objections to that um I I personally
need to get out of here usually by one
La 115 for other things so I just want
to make sure we have enough time and I
think adding a little 15-minute cushion
could could just alleviate some of that
back end and uh and not trying to go
over one all the time so uh it's up for
discussion but would love to love
to love to vote on it ping next month
about moving it to 11:45
any objections or
anything
okay
okay can we put that on to vote for next
month
okay um new new business this is a
couple of things you know I I would like
to I feel like
we we come to this thing once a month
and we don't really venture out and see
what's going on the parts but I would I
talked about you know doing whether it's
three times a year or twice a year or
accordly um and I've cre PRI some I've
got some dates I've been kind of looking
at of actually just meeting like at a
late afternoon at one of the community
centers or one of the parks depending on
the weather and just getting a nice tour
of it and just maybe just doing
something outside of meeting here every
month um
and so just curious what y'all think I
was thinking starting it which we
probably need to vote on in March maybe
starting at first of of April and then
maybe doing it in the summer maybe in
the fall maybe we do three this year
just to get it get it going at least and
maybe if it if it's successful because I
know when I first started we had a we
had a little Social Hour at a restaurant
and a lot of people came I think it was
really good to get to know each other
beyond that but I think it'd be neat to
kind of have it at some of the community
centers that weing all the time and I
haven't been to everyone uh but I've
been to majority of them I would love to
kind see things that I haven't been to
so um Pur is just what you guys think
about that um maybe an April summer fall
you know outing at one of the one of the
parts of community
centers so I hate to point this out but
we're going to have the same technology
problem if at a minimum the meeting
would have to be recorded I'm not
oh I was just thinking about making it
just a
casual group of members from we still
end up having a meeting even though it's
a meeting we have to have technology it
has to be recorded So if you can help
clarify this when we U was it last year
or two years ago um I did a social
activity and we went to a restaurant and
um you know had some food and drinks and
whatnot and we didn't record it but we
advertised it we told the you know
everybody that we were doing it is that
so a social outing where commission
members get together and do not discuss
business would be okay that would be
fine but my understanding is that what
um is being discussed is more of a let's
have a meeting at this location no it's
it's more of just a social and we're not
going to talk about any business of the
parts it just just to come hang out get
to know each other come hang out and
look at some of the do a tour and meet
some of the employees there and and I
that's what I was thinking it wasn't an
official talk about business it was just
get to know each other more
and yeah okay that would be allowable
it's just as long as no business about
the parks is actually discussed and no
decisions or anything like that made
okay well I
will I'm gonna find three dates for this
year and I know everyone can't make it
and it's hard to coordinate calendars
for plus 10 people so so I will put
together some dates that we can vote on
in
March
um and the last one is I you know as as
Leland talked about presenting uh doing
a presentation for board of directors
that talks about kind of our year
interview that's in our bylaws to do
this every year um I kind of created a
letter that had some ideas I sent it out
to everyone I know a couple people to
responded with some ideas but
I think from a timing perspective
is um if you can just if you have any
ideas now Beyond of what I send or
anything to add let me know now or you
can email it to me and and maybe we can
vote on it in March and and then we can
actually I can we can present it at a
parts commission maybe in April and then
present it to the board over the
summer um that's kind of what I was
thinking uh
so I in the
email let me pull it up real quick um
but I talked about the summer playground
program the sales tats efforts canis
Park Jim
Daly senior pool renovation the
subcommittee's formation I think uh Kon
what did you talk about the what was
else that you mentioned in the email I
know you sent an email out the other
well the other couple big like Community
related projects were Panky getting
redone was I mean if you had been out
there before it doesn't look anything
similar uh and then
Kanas uh with the infrastructure there
being the walking trail and the
playground okay they're still getting
completed but I mean it's that all got
kicked off last
year I guess Ben when you uh looked at C
I mean I was going to email you the
exact same things that Canon emailed you
oh I read it and I was like oh I don't
have to do this anymore so if you're
okay with all of his you know additions
that that I'm I like those a lot okay um
well I
guess I will add those to and then um
maybe maybe I'll create a presentation
that I can present that's March so I
don't know if you can put that in the
agenda
mahogany and uh mahogany can you email
me like the parts PowerPoint template
you have that I can use
okay
okay any anyone else have comments on
the presentation for the board you know
it might be uh beneficial to get the new
person who's coming in as the marketing
director to U work with you on that just
so they catch them up to speed as well
on the things that went on last year
kind of what I believe the board all
agreed
um when the vice mayor I think was her
name came last month that she was really
impressed by it and liked it so maybe
that'll get him going to what we want to
do this year like we want to do all
those same things again make sure that
the uh um you know parks and wreck are
out there in the community that all the
good things that they're doing are shown
to everybody and that and that we want
to put a real big emphasis on that again
this
year are you asking for input for the um
the actual presentation to the board
yeah like ideas we can put yeah did you
cover um budget or comparisons to other
parts departments no I probably should
though it's a good idea couple data
points there
um
okay
good um one one of the things I've seen
um with some of the other cities we work
with is uh and again is sports related
or you know surfacing related but they
were looking at instances and you know
like we've talked about canis if you
guys want to justify adding more pickle
ball courts there's not like a counter
sitting there you know it's you drive by
and it's always full you know so you
know or you think you know um but some
of the some of I think something that
would be impactful to the
board um at least in my head would be
some of the things that happen out at
rebs and Tennis Center like so many high
schools use that as their home courts
you know because I think Southwest is
the only high school that has its own
courts on campus
um in the county um so I mean that
that's a pretty impactful thing and then
just the leagues the volumes of people
that come from out of state and I've
looked at that before and the data is a
little um you can get it but it's not
usually in a good format that's easy to
absorb um but that one
is the data is there you know it's
something that's countable you know it's
almost like the marathon data where you
guys say hey 30,000 people came in 6%
were from outside the county you can
sort of do the same thing with that
location as well and I think that's
pretty impact City uh to the board on
Hotel revenues and all that kind of
thing hotel hotel tax revenues and all
that
so K and you were speaking about data
just since we have a little bit of time
on our agenda here I um we we've as a
city have really pushed ourselves more
and more to collect more and more data
and and something that I've even brought
up to my staff for 2025 is to do more in
terms of our reporting efforts for that
but I also was sold by a Salesman the
other day um for a AI company and it was
very interesting to see the amount of
data that they easily collect from cell
phones and different information and
they were able to look at our resond
Tennis Center as you were noting and
tell us exactly how many people have
been there not exactly but I mean with
the algorithm or whatever but what was
even interesting more so than that they
said we can tell you that after they
visited resond Tennis Center this this
group of people here or this many people
went to um Kane's Chicken on University
or whatever oh um and they and they can
check me so it's just like wow can you
please give me that data so um I asked
you know the what would that would cost
he said it would be roughly like3 to
$40,000 a year to be able to have access
to that kind of data uh another unique
thing out of that was he this gentleman
the salesman didn't know anything about
Little Rock I hadn't like told him to
look up anything he just picked up the
other location that he picked up on was
the pickle ball and he did a heat map
across the country of where people are
coming to that from that pickle ball to
play pickle ball and obviously there's
not a large group you know like from
other states but there are some from
Texas or whatever but I mean but it's
interesting to see it's not just people
from L Rock majority of the people that
are coming to play pickle ball there are
like from Cav or like all these outside
cities and to show be able to show that
and share that information to show look
at how many people are coming from
outside coming here to spend money and
do these things and enjoy this why are
we not doubling down on that on that
possibility you know you're preaching to
the choir but
yes I I give you a whole presentation on
why rubman Tennis Center should be like
redone yeah I mean just for the
community impact I mean the the anyway
the socio economic but yeah that that
data is pretty amazing and I mean really
NE the data from chip um from the
registration the USA they used to use um
you guys use active for a lot of the
bookings and stuff USA used them and
then they they sort of finally rebuilt
their own they rebuilt their own and the
data coming out of it that he had I had
him send me a couple tournament like
reports like who in entered in the city
and state they were from and the date is
just so clunky as far as like this was a
year and a half ago maybe a year ago but
um one of the level four or fives which
is a bigger Regional Tournament I mean
there's people here from 25 States and
when you have one kid there's at least
one parent if not a second and then
usually a sibling coming with them I
mean it's usually not just a kid by
himself when it's a you know 12 14 year
old tournament so I mean yeah data is
pretty crazy um on that stuff but we
still use active Angela is currently
working with active to get it more
robust for us um we've actually
reviewing a we just had a like a one
hour or two hour um meeting with them to
review our stuff and there's a lot of
data that's really um kind of outdated
in terms of members we have something
over like 6,500 members in active um and
so we're looking at a process to go and
clean up a lot of that data and make it
more U efficient and I'd be excited for
this new person that's going to be in in
terms of data should be all over um that
that
information okay um I had a few a few
questions I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm late
um did we do a marathon update isn't
that next month did I already missed
that I'm sorry if I
did okay okay I'll talk to you later we
didn't want to talk about the marathon
oh really okay no I'm just kidding we I
gave an update saying you know it is uh
March 1st and we're excited about it we
got a great Expo lineup filled up um and
um yeah it's it sold out I guess was my
I I don't know if the full has uh the
full Marathon but I know that uh talking
to Geneva the ex Ive director that
there's the 5K was on the edge of
selling out if not already
so sold
out and then my my next thing I was
going to ask you about Ben was the the
membership I thought we talked did I
already did we already talk about that
already I was gonna oh it's already in
there okay great I was going to bring
that up in agenda items for Nets meeting
so
um I guess we'll go ahead and get
started I think before we get into that
we I guess we're going to vote on on
dates uh for the those corly for those
site visits um as well as we'll I'm
going present a uh draft I guess
presentation for the board and then um I
will hopefully we can get a you know
subcommittees we have aone here that's
that's M to talk about more about the
subcommittees but um yeah talking about
that I know and I might lean on Simone
for this but I guess Simone found in the
bylaws that um Commissioners they need
to be
I guess voted on by the commission
itself um so I know we have we have two
vacancies I'm assuming one Canon has
asked to to be or to continue to be on I
think your termined in this January I
guess and then with Linda leaving
there's so there's one vacancy and then
one potential renewal with Canon so I
guess we would have to vote on that
Canon's already applied online we've had
a few other
applicants um so I'm
assuming we would just we would put that
in new business to vote on it and then
once we vote on it we it goes to the
board director's
meeting that's
correct so it has the
application is it for all they is it is
it the deadline been passed already or
people still applying to it do we know
that it's open-ended you can oh it's
just send it in whenever you want okay
yeah okay so I guess sort of like
there's a pool that's constantly
hopefully replenishing or so I guess
from we'll have an updated MOG will you
send us I guess for any additional
applicants will you send it to us so we
can look at it and then we'll have a
vote on it I guess in
March um yes now I did previously email
out the but there's any more that come
um well I'll find out normally the city
clerk keeps us a breast of those things
so uh she sends them as soon as she gets
them okay
okay um Dr Lewis before you leave do you
have anything to
add can you speak into the mic Andrea
okay speaking to the
mic all is way
thanks for the progress with uh what did
I say Kanis Park K and then yes bull um
how that's competing all um and it's
just something minor with West Central
out at the community center but I'm
working on that and yeah they got the
dirt and all trying to do with the ball
fields thank you Dr
Lewis um with any of that we'll we'll be
here that's March or that's March 12th
Wednesday I guess we'll be here again um
and uh yeah that's all I have anything
else do yeah I was going to add do we
have anybody um removed from the board
due to lack of attendance because in the
the bylaws it states that when you when
a member has missed more than 25% of all
regular meetings of the Commission in
one calendar year or more than three
consecutive regularly scheduled meetings
the members automatically removed from
the commission so I don't know I mean um
if we've had anybody removed if we have
do we know who those people are no one
has been removed from the commission
okay um outside of Linda uh Smith's
resignation um next meeting um we do
have an
absenteeism tracker and so uh we can
make sure that that is um discussed in
the next meeting okay perfect thank you
can I ask one question just because this
is more of a general like we're not
having official business per se
um like when this project for the for
this community center gets redone uh and
I know you guys are still doing
questions and we'll be collecting bids
but um is the city's policy always to go
with the lowest bid or is there like
carve outs for most qualified
or you know
they're actually going to be doing the
work and not just hiring everybody else
and tacking on 25% to the whole thing I
mean how how do you guys do that or
what's the in terms of the
construction any of these projects that
I'm looking at here I mean there there's
several of them going on so yeah so for
design we do a selection committee um
for selecting Professional Services um
and Justin could speak in detail of that
he's manages that process for us in
terms of professional contracts for
design work and whatnot and Recreation
would do the same in terms of others so
that's through RFP RFQ and we have an S
soq list which is a statement of
qualifications yearly there's all kinds
of little different processes for that
uh the short answer in terms of
construction is yes low bid um low most
low successful bid um but there are
different ways to go about it I haven't
been a part of a lot of those you know
like a I guess you could do like a
design build or some kind of alternative
design process or request for
qualifications first I guess and review
all that um but in terms of pretty much
anything I've been a part of it's
typically put it out to bid and we do
have different um procedures or
guidelines in our bid in terms of
minority Ventures and trying to get
other subcontractors involved in in the
project as well we encourage all that uh
in terms of people bidding we do have a
list of um bidder or contractors as well
that obviously we wouldn't want to do
business with again or um or have had
bad experience with so we're not just
selecting you know whatever um and stuff
like that but um
yeah so to that point
on it doesn't matter to me I mean I'm
not think of anyone in particular but
say somebody did a project for
I don't know rebuilt a police station or
fire station right it was awful like
just an awful experience for the city
does that get communicated to you guys
when you're going through the whole hey
this guy got low bid and then yes
someone's sort of saying you know giving
him the a no no no that's not happening
um I haven't done this lately but I know
J might be able to speak to do you have
a process for that there's a when I was
in the operations we had a memo that we
would send to procurement stating our
our dissatisfaction was so and so vendor
and they would keep that in some type of
record do you do something similar to
that
today well and do other City Department
share that it's all one procurement
database location yes on most of the
documents even that go out one of the
questions that they have to answer on
their uh qualifications for the bid is
have you done work with the city um list
projects or something like that and it
also has a thing on if you've ever been
found uh in default or ever had your
bond you know so there's that stand
checklist of questions they they have to
answer and that will weigh in when we
review the
bids and then something I've seen again
with other cities and
more
uh recently because we're like the last
guys in
usually um
and I don't know how to do it I mean I'm
just putting it out there I don't know
how to do it but more and more uh if
it's a multi step process or project
these contractors aren't anything but
paper pushers man like they just charge
a 25% up charge on everybody else's
numbers and I don't know if there's a
way
to one qualify or rubric it and then
hold them accountable to it but you know
that you're actually going to perform
some amount of the work yourselves or
with your own equipment or your own
Crews
or your cost will come down I mean like
because it's yeah what you're I've seen
some big projects go like we we know
what the number should be just based on
like logic right and it's like 2 3x and
these are other cities other counties
you know but it's you know when you're
talking about a project coming in at $10
million that maybe a year and a half ago
was five like it's not just construction
it's just people padding it and tagging
on to it I mean it's just sort of crazy
um we do do in the professional
engineering side of things we do
obviously do cost estimates that show
you know where the project should be in
terms of of price right um and so just
to the general public to understand if
we had a cost estimate for a $5 million
project and it came in at $10 million
we're not just going to you know default
into oh okay that's low bid we're moving
forward yeah um I just want to clarify
that but um we're we want to make sure
we're just being you know the best doers
of the dollars and and all that so um
there is a lot that goes into it I mean
we do that end of checking procurement
does obviously when we take it to the
City Board there's obviously time for
discussion at those points citizen
communication can disc I mean there's a
lot of checks and balances but yes
you're correct in terms of you know what
you're I mean there's different Realms
of uh vendors that are doing different
things and um
yeah it's just something I've been
seeing you know and when I'm at other
cities or states and I'm
seeing you're paying what for who you
know like I mean how do I get that job
you know kind of thing like it just sort
of boggles my mind sometimes so um are
are is the parks department concerned
about any that do we have any federal
funding that we're worried about getting
we you already discussed that too I'm
sorry um you're good um you were
referring to the Grant I guess I'm just
worried about different grants any kind
of money from the federal government
seems to be paused or on hold or got an
injunction I mean just a ton of
different stuff going on and I didn't
know if we were relying on any of those
things for some of our projects I know a
lot of you know because you talked about
last year the arpa funds have all run
out or mainly have um and so where are
we on on that uh yeah that's great uh
Point yes there are um a lot of federal
grants that we have that we're in the
process of um there's other ones that we
received some funding and we haven't
moved forward yet or in that process
there's other ones that we just applied
for and there's other ones that we're in
the process of trying to to apply um we
slowed down really not at all um we just
we heard about that information and then
we can continue to work towards our
goals and then we found that I guess
some of that I haven't kept up with
every aspect of it or really don't want
to speak to it but I understand that I
guess that's back that's finalized or
been discussed to be um not something
they're going to withhold anymore right
um but obviously all that being reviewed
is always a concern I mean I don't we
had some other monies I don't know if
you were here when I was talking about
Reservoir Park um that was before this
Administration I believe that's correct
um and so they didn't have that didn't
have anything to do with that but that
was already some funding that was pulled
back from us in terms of the Reservoir
Road work infrastructure is really
another reason um I've actually um we
received a grant for Western Hills that
we're finalizing and we met with the
federal government out there just
recently on site they were excited about
the
project and it was right in the midst of
this whole discussion that you bring up
and um they were very optimistic about
it and they were actually uh discussing
other grants with us so um it's kind of
all over the place uh it's definitely a
concern of ours but we are um we're so
pushing
forward all right well I think that
covers everything thank you for joining
us today and we'll see you next
month oh you're welcome